---
title: 2021 Digital Humanities Showcase
date: 2021-09-28
event: true
featureUntil: 2021-01-15
eventDate: 2021-10-10
startTime: 2:30PM EST
endTime: 5:00PM EST
location: Zoom
tags:
- seed_grants
- grad_fellows
abstract: |
  Recipients of Digital Humanities Seed Grants & Graduate Fellowships will present their research projects on October 10, 2021.
---

On October 10, 2021 from 3:30-5:00pm EST, recipients of Digital Humanities Seed Grants & Summer Fellowships will present their research projects.

The broad, interdisciplinary field of Digital Humanities includes computationally engaged research and pedagogy, digital publication, and humanistic interrogation of technology. Featuring five faculty-led projects as well as ten graduate student projects, this showcase collectively represents the impressive range of current DH research at NYU.

## Featuring

Seed Grant Recipients: Michael Ralph, Thomas Jacobs, Tom Augst, Janet Bunde, Gavin Beinart-Smollan, Hilke Schellmann.

Graduate Summer Fellows: Jubilee Marshall, Daniel Joslyn, Bryan Zehngut-Willits, Alijan Ozkiral, Jackson Smith, Georgios Tsolakis, Jonathan Armoza, Lauren Busser, Ada Petiwala

With moderator Ben Schmidt, Director of Digital Humanities.

The Center for the Humanities is committed to making our events as accessible as possible to everyone, including (but not limited to) those with visual and hearing impairments. For disability accommodations please contact us at humanities.center@nyu.edu as soon as possible. Advance notice is necessary to arrange for some accessibility needs.

## More Information

This event is co-sponsored by NYU Libraries and NYU Research Technology.

Direct Registration Link: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/2021-digital-humanities-showcase-tickets-180400782597

Center for the Humanities Website: https://nyuhumanities.org/event/2021-digital-humanities-showcase/
